---
title: "AUP : Assignment - 2 [File Management Advanced]"
author: Aditi Rajendra Medhane 111803177
date: "30th August 2021"
---

### 1. Write a program to create a file with 2 holes: write any 10 bytes at an offset of 10, another 10 bytes at an offset of 30 and 3rd 10 bytes at an offset of 60. Using “system” function, invoke “od” command and view the contents. Later copy the contents of the file to another file without writing the bytes of 0. Once again verify the contents by invoking “system” with “od”.  What is the size of the file with hole and the new file found using lstat? Using SEEK_HOLE and SEEK_DATA, print the offset positions of holes in the file.

```{.c}


```

---

### 2. Which are the time values gets modified by the successful execution of these functions?     
>	open(“file1”, O_RDONLY) ; //assume that file is already existing
>	open(“file2”, O_WRONLY|O_CREAT, 0777) ;//file does not existing
>	open(“file2”, O_WRONLY|O_CREAT, 0777) ;//file is already existing

```{.c}


```

### Observations  :
Case1 : File Already exists
	1. open() : 

	2. write() : file times were found to be same.

Case 2 : File does not exist
	- "stat" command execution on non-existing file gave error
	- Creating an empty file
	- all the 3 times had same value after execution of *stat* command on newly created file.

### Conclusion

1. File already exists -> **File times remains as it is**.
   Verified using "stat" command - by calling the function 
   & checking the modified values before & after stat.

WHY ? 
- m_time : The file is not modified(write operation doesn't happen on file) 
- a_time : The file is not accessed as it has been opened in *write mode*.
- c_time : The file is not changed as data in the inode hasn't changed.

2. New file Created -> **All File time values are affected.**
- All three fields (i.e. a_time, m_time, c_time) sre set to the same time.


---

### 3. Create a list of symbolic links like e® f, d ® e, c ® d, b ® c, a ®b.  Input a symbolic link file name (say a). Display all the links until it is not possible to follow.

```{.c}


```

---


